Ucx getting started (#390)
NVIDIA/spark-rapids: docs/get-started/getting-started.md

![Join Example on Spark SQL UI](../img/join-sql-ui-example.png)

## Enabling RapidsShuffleManager
---
**NOTE**

The _RapidsShuffleManager_ is a beta feature!

---

> The _RapidsShuffleManager_ is an implementation of the `ShuffleManager` interface in Apache Spark,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The _RapidsShuffleManager_ is an implementation of the `ShuffleManager` interface in Apache Spark
```

that allows custom mechanisms to exchange shuffle data. The _RapidsShuffleManager_ has two components:
a spillable cache, and a transport that can utilize _Remote Direct Memory Access (RDMA)_ and high-bandwidth 
transfers within a node that has multiple GPUs. This is possible because the plugin utilizes 
[Unified Communication X (UCX)](https://www.openucx.org/) as its transport.

> - **Spillable cache**: This store keeps GPU data close by where it was produced, and spills to host memory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Spillable cache**: This store keeps GPU data close by where it was produced and spills to host memory
```

> or disk when running out of space due to limited GPU memory, or configuration (when going from host

Reviewer: "or configuration" is oddly worded.  How about describing how it spills to host memory when available GPU memory runs low then separately mention it will spill from host memory to disk when the configurable amount of available host memory for spill runs low.

> to disk). Local tasks (to the producing executor) will short-circuit read from this cache.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to disk). Tasks local to the producing executor will short-circuit read from this cache.
```

- **Transport**: Handles block transfers between executors using various means like: _NVLink_, _PCIe_, _Infiniband (IB)_, 
_RDMA over Converged Ethernet (RoCE)_ or _TCP_, and as configured in UCX, in these scenarios:
  - _GPU-to-GPU_: Shuffle blocks that were able to fit in GPU memory.

>   - _Host-to-GPU_ and _Disk-to-GPU_: Shuffle blocks that spilled to host (or disk), but will be manifested 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - _Host-to-GPU_ and _Disk-to-GPU_: Shuffle blocks that spilled to host (or disk) but will be manifested 
```

  in the GPU in the downstream Spark task.

> In order to enable the _RapidsShuffleManager_, please follow these steps (If you don't have 
> Mellanox hardware go to *step 2*):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to enable the _RapidsShuffleManager_, please follow these steps. If you don't have 
Mellanox hardware go to *step 2*:
```

Reviewer: this comment was missed

Author: Thanks. Done.

1) If you have Mellanox NICs and an Infiniband(IB) or RoCE network, please ensure you have the 

> MLNX_OFED [driver installed](https://www.mellanox.com/products/infiniband-drivers/linux/mlnx_ofed), 
> and the [`nv_peer_mem` kernel module](https://www.mellanox.com/products/GPUDirect-RDMA).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[MLNX_OFED driver](https://www.mellanox.com/products/infiniband-drivers/linux/mlnx_ofed), 
and the [`nv_peer_mem` kernel module](https://www.mellanox.com/products/GPUDirect-RDMA) installed.
```

> In order to enable the _RapidsShuffleManager_, please follow these steps:
> 
> 1) (If you don't have Mellanox hardware go to *step 2*) If you have Mellanox NICs and an Infiniband(IB)
> or RoCE network, please ensure you have the MLNX_OFED [driver installed](https://www.mellanox.com/products/infiniband-drivers/linux/mlnx_ofed), 
> and the [`nv_peer_mem` kernel module](https://www.mellanox.com/products/GPUDirect-RDMA). This will 
> need to be installed on every machine for RDMA transfers to work between the GPU and the NIC. 
> 
> Without `nv_peer_mem`, IB/RoCE-based transfers will not be zero-copy from the GPU.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to enable the _RapidsShuffleManager_, please follow these steps (If you don't have Mellanox hardware go to *step 2*):

1) If you have Mellanox NICs and an Infiniband(IB) or RoCE network, please ensure you have the MLNX_OFED [driver installed](https://www.mellanox.com/products/infiniband-drivers/linux/mlnx_ofed), 
and the [`nv_peer_mem` kernel module](https://www.mellanox.com/products/GPUDirect-RDMA). This will 
need to be installed on every machine for RDMA transfers to work between the GPU and the NIC. 

With `nv_peer_mem`, IB/RoCE-based transfers will be zero-copy from the GPU.
```

Author: Thanks @sameerz I phrased it slightly differently in https://github.com/NVIDIA/spark-rapids/pull/390/commits/1d9d46eb5bba4ae4351790f81be80093b02fe636. For the `nv_peer_mem` case, UCX gets the _choice_ to use RDMA, but it's not a requirement, as it can decide that staging through the host is lower cost in some scenarios.

2) Install [UCX 1.8.1](https://github.com/openucx/ucx/releases/tag/v1.8.1). 

3) You will need to configure your spark job with extra settings for UCX (we are looking to 
simplify these settings in the near future):

```shell
...
--conf spark.shuffle.manager=com.nvidia.spark.RapidsShuffleManager \
--conf spark.shuffle.service.enabled=false \
--conf spark.rapids.shuffle.transport.enabled=true \
--conf spark.executorEnv.UCX_TLS=cuda_copy,cuda_ipc,rc,tcp \
--conf spark.executorEnv.UCX_ERROR_SIGNALS= \
--conf spark.executorEnv.UCX_MAX_RNDV_RAILS=1 \
--conf spark.executorEnv.UCX_MEMTYPE_CACHE=n \
--conf spark.executorEnv.UCX_RNDV_SCHEME=put_zcopy \
--conf spark.executor.extraClassPath=/usr/lib:/usr/lib/ucx:${SPARK_CUDF_JAR}:${SPARK_RAPIDS_PLUGIN_JAR} \
```

Please note `extraClassPath`, presently requires the UCX libraries to be added to the classpath. Newer

> versions of UCX handle loading shared libraries differently, and should not require this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
versions of UCX handle loading shared libraries differently and should not require this.
```

### UCX Environment Variables
- `UCX_TLS`: 
  - `cuda_copy`, and `cuda_ipc`: enables handling of CUDA memory in UCX, both for copy-based transport
    and peer-to-peer communication between GPUs (NVLink/PCIe).
  - `rc`: enables Infiniband and RoCE based transport in UCX.
  - `tcp`: allows for TCP communication in cases where UCX deems necessary.
- `UCX_ERROR_SIGNALS=`: Disables UCX signal catching, as it can cause issues with the JVM.
- `UCX_MAX_RNDV_RAILS=1`: Set this to `1` to disable multi-rail transfers in UCX, where UCX splits

>   data to utilize various channels (e.g. two NICs). A value greater than `1` can cause a performance drop, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  data to utilize various channels (e.g. two NICs). A value greater than `1` can cause a performance drop
```

  for high-bandwidth transports between GPUs.
- `UCX_MEMTYPE_CACHE=n`: Disables a cache in UCX that can cause UCX to fail when running with CUDA buffers. 

> - `UCX_RNDV_SCHEME=put_zcopy`: Picks the scheme to be used in the [RNDV](https://community.mellanox.com/s/article/understanding-tag-matching-for-developers)

Reviewer: Do we want users setting this?  I thought we were moving away from setting this explicitly.  I also thought we saw good performance when letting this be the default.

Author: Removed. I tested some of our queries with `auto` and yes it seems it is the way to go at this stage.

  protocol. In our tests, `put_zcopy` has shown higher performance than other schemes.
  
### RapidsShuffleManager Fine Tuning
Here are some settings that could be utilized to fine tune the _RapidsShuffleManager_:

#### Bounce Buffers
The following configs control the number of bounce buffers, and the size. Please note that for

> device buffers, two pools are created (for sending and receiving). So that this into account when

Reviewer: ```suggestion
device buffers, two pools are created (for sending and receiving). Take this into account when
```
